[MUSIC]
In this next section we're going to
go over how to sort a pivot table.
So we've looked at this a little and
some of our past examples but
there are even more sort functions
that we haven't gotten into yet.
In problem 4a,
we're going to sort the distributors
in alphabetical order by first name.
So it looks like here we have
the distributors from Panama and
their revenue.
So I'll click the dialog box next to
distributor to show our sort functions.
And currently since Sort Z
to A is highlighted,
it looks like that is what we're using.
But we want this in alphabetical order, so
I'm going to change this to Sort A to Z.
And now we can see that we have our table
in alphabetical order by first name.
Now problem 4b is a little more
complicated because we have the quantity
of products broken down by sales channel.
Here, the question is asking us
to sort both the products and
the sales channel in descending
order by sum of quantity.
Just as in our past example,
we can click the dialogue box next
to Products to see our sort options.
Here, you can see that there's
already a Select Field option.
Though this menu is helpful it's always
better to look at the more sort option,
so you can see all of your options and
what is the easiest way to
go about sorting your data.
So here you can see the options,
ascending and descending, and
we would like to sort descending order.
On the top of this menu, it says
select field and has a drop down menu.
The drop down menu shows both
sales channel and product.
So this is what we are going to sort by.
In our example, we would like to
sort products and sales channel.
So lets start with product.
I'll click on Product to tell Excel
that we would like to sort by product.
Next, I'll go to More Sort Options, and we
would like to sort it in descending order,
so I'm going to click for Descending.
And what would we like to sort by?
So you can see in the summary
below right now we
are sorting product in descending order,
but we would like to sort
product by Sum of quantity.
So this drop down menu allows us to
sort product by sum of quantity,
and you can see that that
is updated in our summary.
So now I'm going to click
OK to update those changes.
This pivot table now shows products sorted
in descending order by sum of quantity.
The next step will be to sort
sales channel in descending order
by sum of quantity.
To do this let's return to our sort menu.
I'm going to click the button
next to products again, and
here when we select field we would
like to select Sales Channel.
The next step is to go to
the more sort options menu.
Question 4b asks for
a descending order by sum of quantity.
So I'll click Descending and
then change this to Sum of Quantity.
And we can see in our summary,
we are sorting sales channel by Sum
of Quantity in descending order.
So I'm going to click OK.
Our resulting pivot table
has online retail and
direct, our sales channel,
in descending order by sum of quantity,
as well as the products within those
sales channels in descending order.
In problem 4c,
it's your turn to try sorting.
Sort countries and products in
descending order by sum of revenue.
If you're having any trouble,
try guessing and checking.
Good luck.
[MUSIC]